quickstart for data ingestion tools and use cases (#101)
Teradata/quickstarts: modules/ROOT/pages/select-the-right-data-ingestion-tools-for-teradata-vantage.adoc

= Select the right data ingestion tools for Teradata Vantage
:experimental:
:page-author: Krutik Pathak
:page-email: krutik.pathak@teradata.com
:page-revdate: August 9th, 2023
:description: Recommendation of data ingestions tools to be used in different use cases for Teradata Vantage
:keywords: data ingestion, teradata, nos, tpt, bteq, querygrid, airbyte, object store, saas, vantage, apache, spark, presto, oracle
:tabs:

== Overview

This article outlines different use cases involving data ingestion, lists available tools, and recommends the optimal tool for each use case.

=== Ingesting data from external object store
==== Available Tools: link:https://docs.teradata.com/r/Enterprise_IntelliFlex_VMware/Teradata-VantageTM-Native-Object-Store-Getting-Started-Guide-17.20/Welcome-to-Native-Object-Store[Teradata Native Object Store (NOS), window="_blank"], https://docs.teradata.com/r/Teradata-Parallel-Transporter-User-Guide/June-2022/Introduction-to-Teradata-PT[Teradata Parallel Transporter (TPT),window="_blank"]

> * *Teradata NOS*: NOS is the recommended option to ingest data from files in object storage. This situation is very common in the cloud and on-prem data fabric systems. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Teradata NOS*: NOS is the recommended option to ingest data from files in object storage, a scenario frequently found in both cloud, and on-premises data fabric systems. 
```
